README.md, before:

# Heavy Metal Hollywood Spider
<img src="./media/Spider_with_eyes.png" height="50%" width="50%">

The **Spider** project is a fusion of two current interests:
* Art Metal class
* Raspberry Pi and related hardware software.

As with the ![Chocolate Box News Reader](https://github.com/rongrimes/paxnews) ("paxnews"), the project grew organically. That is I only had a rough idea how it would all look at the end but progresson was consistent over a number of months. You could say that, he is an organic spider (best kind!).

Ultimately, HMHS is going to be a Halloween prop.

## Components:
* Raspberry Pi Zero W
* Eyes: 2 clusters of 4 RGB LEDs
* Adafruit I2S 3W Stereo Speaker Bonnet for Raspberry Pi
  * includes 2 speakers 
* PIR sensor
* LED string (white)

## Spider Construction
The spider grew "organically" over two semesters of the **Art Metal** class held at ![Danforth Collegiate](https://www.danforthcti.com/) in the body shop workshop, under the auspices of the ![TDSB Adult Learner Program](https://www.tdsb.on.ca/Adult-Learners/Learn4Life) (Toronto District School Board). [Thanks to Phil and Toby for their guidance.]

## General Operations
The spider sensor resides in the nose and detects motion from pets/humanoids/zombie  up to 5 metres away (<a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/189" target="_blank">possibly works on zombies, not guaranteed</a>).

On pet/humanoid/zombie detection:
* Spider is dozing: The cyan eyes and body lights twitch every few seconds. Until someone/thing comes by.
* Spider goes on alert: The cyan eyes and body lights start flashing rapidly.
* Spider gets angry: The red eyes then transition up to full brightness.
* Spider emits warning noises: A short sound clip plays repeatedly until the pet/humanoid/zombie goes out of range.
* All clear, Spider goes back to sleep: The red eyes then transition down.
* Spider goes back to dozing.

### Spider video
![Spider video](media/Spider2.mp4).

(Click and view the ![raw file](https://github.com/rongrimes/spider/blob/master/media/Spider2.mp4?raw=true) in a separate window.).

### Schematic
See ![schematic](fritzing/spider_schematic.pdf).

## Operations
Start spider with _crontab_:
```
@reboot rm -f /home/pi/python/spider/ospid.txt # JOB_ID_1; Remove pid file to prevent mulitiple incursions of spider.
@reboot sleep 2 && ~pi/run_spider.sh # JOB_ID_2; start spider.
```

## FAQ
Q: Why _Hollywood_?  
A: Well, we... the spider and me... live on Hollywood Cres.

***
Ron Grimes  
Toronto  
Started:     January 2019  
Last Update: June 2020

Commit message:

Changed update date. Noted that the description is now out of date.

README.md, after:

# Heavy Metal Hollywood Spider
<img src="./media/Spider_with_eyes.png" height="50%" width="50%">

The **Spider** project is a fusion of two current interests:
* Art Metal class
* Raspberry Pi and related hardware software.

As with the ![Chocolate Box News Reader](https://github.com/rongrimes/paxnews) ("paxnews"), the project grew organically. That is I only had a rough idea how it would all look at the end but progresson was consistent over a number of months. You could say that, he is an organic spider (best kind!).

Ultimately, HMHS is going to be a Halloween prop.

## Components:
* Raspberry Pi Zero W
* Eyes: 2 clusters of 4 RGB LEDs
* Adafruit I2S 3W Stereo Speaker Bonnet for Raspberry Pi
  * includes 2 speakers 
* PIR sensor
* LED string (white)

## Spider Construction
The spider grew "organically" over two semesters of the **Art Metal** class held at ![Danforth Collegiate](https://www.danforthcti.com/) in the body shop workshop, under the auspices of the ![TDSB Adult Learner Program](https://www.tdsb.on.ca/Adult-Learners/Learn4Life) (Toronto District School Board). [Thanks to Phil and Toby for their guidance.]

## General Operations
The spider sensor resides in the nose and detects motion from pets/humanoids/zombie  up to 5 metres away (<a href="https://www.adafruit.com/product/189" target="_blank">possibly works on zombies, not guaranteed</a>).

On pet/humanoid/zombie detection:
* Spider is dozing: The cyan eyes and body lights twitch every few seconds. Until someone/thing comes by.
* Spider goes on alert: The cyan eyes and body lights start flashing rapidly.
* Spider gets angry: The red eyes then transition up to full brightness.
* Spider emits warning noises: A short sound clip plays repeatedly until the pet/humanoid/zombie goes out of range.
* All clear, Spider goes back to sleep: The red eyes then transition down.
* Spider goes back to dozing.

### Spider video
![Spider video](media/Spider2.mp4).

(Click and view the ![raw file](https://github.com/rongrimes/spider/blob/master/media/Spider2.mp4?raw=true) in a separate window.).

### Schematic
See ![schematic](fritzing/spider_schematic.pdf).

## Operations
Start spider with _crontab_:
```
@reboot rm -f /home/pi/python/spider/ospid.txt # JOB_ID_1; Remove pid file to prevent mulitiple incursions of spider.
@reboot sleep 2 && ~pi/run_spider.sh # JOB_ID_2; start spider.
```

## FAQ
Q: Why _Hollywood_?  
A: Well, we... the spider and me... live on Hollywood Cres.

***
Ron Grimes  
Toronto  
Started:     January 2019  
Last Update: October 2020: Files update; this description is now out-of-date. Pending update :)
